# CyberSecurityWithML
Cybersecurity with Machine learning techniques
The scope is to integrate machine learning (ML) approaches to meet various cyber security issues. With the advancement of Network and IoT needs sufficient security measures. Cyber-security with ML has long-standing challenges that require methodological and theoretical handling. The conventional cryptography approach is less applied in resource constrained devices. To solve these issues machine learning approach may be effectively used in providing security to the vast growing hand held and IoT devices. Machine learning algorithms can also be used to meet various cyber security issues, like effective intrusion detection system, zero knowledge authentication system, measures for passive attacks, protocols design, privacy system design and application and many more.
One of the significant challenges that researchers and the entire ML community need to deal with if they are going to apply ML in cybersecurity successfully is malware classification and detection.
It is not easy to identify malicious programs as attackers use complicated techniques such as polymorphism, impersonation, compression, and obfuscation to evade detection. Other challenges include limited domain experts which lead to lack of labeled samples and numerous labeling errors, imbalanced data sets, the attacker-defender games, difficulty in identifying malicious sources, the tragedy of metrics, and more.
Access to Datasets
Since one of the key hindrances to investigating cyber-security problems is a lack of appropriate data sets, researchers have provided access to datasets that can enable the academic community to investigate the aforementioned challenges and suggest methods that can help minimize or eliminate them. They also present a methodology to help generate labels via pivoting and in so doing provide a solution to common problems such as lack of labels in cyber-security.
Potential Uses and Effects
Researchers behind this work are of the idea that the use of ML in cybersecurity should change. They also believe that the cyber community has a duty to help the ML community to become more active in the field. Tell you what? I think so too!
Currently, there’s a lack of enough qualified and experienced cybersecurity analysts to help minimize the skyrocketing global cyber-attacks. And, there already exists an overabundance of big data that can be used in several algorithms to improve the current state of cybersecurity with ML. Let’s all hope that these research developments will help drive new methods that will boost current state-of-the-art in both ML and cybersecurity.